## Common User Guide Points for PGA

<b>Who are you?</b><br/>
[<button type="button" style="color:#E5E7E9;text-align:center;font-weight:lighter;background-color:#808B96;width:140px;height:42px;border-radius:8px">Gateway User</button>](#GatewayUser) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
[<button type="button" style="color:#E5E7E9;text-align:center;font-weight:lighter;background-color:#808B96;width:140px;height:42px;border-radius:8px">Gateway Admin/PI</button>](#GatewayAdmin) <br></br>
OR
<b>Do you want to? </b><br/>
[<button type="button" style="color:#E5E7E9;text-align:center;font-weight:lighter;background-color:#808B96;width:140px;height:42px;border-radius:8px">Create & Monitor Experiments</button>](#create) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
[<button type="button" style="color:#E5E7E9;text-align:center;font-weight:lighter;background-color:#808B96;width:140px;height:42px;border-radius:8px">Manage my Experiments</button>](#manage) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
[<button type="button" style="color:#E5E7E9;text-align:center;font-weight:lighter;background-color:#808B96;width:140px;height:42px;border-radius:8px">Configure Applications</button>](#application) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
[<button type="button" style="color:#E5E7E9;text-align:center;font-weight:lighter;background-color:#808B96;width:140px;height:42px;border-radius:8px">Configure Resources</button>](#resource)<br/>




### <h3 id="GatewayUser">User Guide for Gateway User</h3>
For step by step user guide refer <a href="https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/AIRAVATA/Tutorial+04+-+PHP+Reference+Gateway+for+Airavata+-+End-User+Guide" target="_blank">Gateway End User Guide</a> Given steps are common for Airavata PGA.
<h5 id="create">Create and Monitor Experiment </h5><br>
In order to launch a job in one of the existing remote resource in the gateway user need to create an experiment and launch it.

1. What is the Project? <br/>
Project is simply a collection of experiments. When creating an experiment it will be under the project you select.<br/>
	- Where can I get test inputs? <br/>
		If you need test inputs try downloading from <a href="https://iu.app.box.com/files/0/f/4083595861/Airavata_PGA_Application_Inputs" target="_blank">Test Input Files</a> <br/>
	- Do I need to provide values for wall-time, node count and CPU count? OR can I go ahead with the given default values? <br/>
		Default values are given to make life little easy for users. But depending on the job you should change the values. E.g.:If you need only two or less cores than 16 better to change. If you need more wall-time change it, etc....<br/>
	- What can I do with Notifications? <br/>
		Submitting a job from PGA does not guarantee job getting executed in the remote resource right away. If you add your email address, when the job starts an email will be sent to you from the remote resource.<br/>
	- Why 'Save' and 'Save and Launch'? <br>
		User has the option of either create and 'Save' the experiment for later launch at remote resource <br/>Or <br/>
		can directly 'Save and Launch' at once.<br/>
	- How do I monitor progress?<br/>
		When the experiment is launched navigate to Experiment Summary Page.
		There the experiment and job status will be present.
		You can monitor the experiment and job status changes.<br/>
		<br/>
2. Download Outputs<br/>
	- How do I view/download my outputs? <br/>
		Same way you monitor the experiment progress! 
		<br/>For each experiment inputs can be downloaded from<br/>
		- Experiment Summary page<br/>
		- From 'Storage' at the top menu. Here you need to know the Project the experiment belongs to. 
		<br/> Once you locate the project you can browse for your experiment. <br/>
	- I want to bring back all the outputs generated by my job. How?
		Simply set Archive to 'true' in respective application interface in Admin Dashboard. Then all the files in the working directory will be brought back to PGA.

<h5 id="manage">Manage my Experiments</h5>
1. I want to cancel my experiment. How?
	- Navigate to experiment Summary and click 'Cancel' button.
	- Experiments only in operation (LAUNCHED, EXECUTING experiment statuses) can be cancelled.
2. When I cancel do I still receive any outputs generated?
	- When the user requested the cancel files will be not transferred from the remote resource. But however by the time 'Cancel' was triggered if the output files were transferred to PGA data directories they will be displayed.
3. How can I run same application with different different inputs?
	- Simply clone an existing experiment and change the input files and launch.
4. I want to change the wall-time of my experiment before launch. How can I do?
	- Experiments in CREATED state and not launched yet can be modified through Experiment Summary page. Click 'Edit' change values and Save.
	
	

### <h3 id="GatewayAdmin">User Guide for Gateway Admin/PI</h3>
For step by step user guide refer <a href="https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/AIRAVATA/Tutorial+05+-+PHP+Reference+Gateway+for+Airavata+-+Gateway+Admin+Guide"target="_blank">Gateway Admin User Guide</a>

##### <h5 id="application">Application Property Descriptions</h5>
1. Application Input Properties
	- <b>Add Application Input:</b> </br>
	Click this button to add inputs in Application Interface
		- <b>Name:</b> </br>
		Identifier of the application input
		- <b>Value:</b></br> 
		This could be a STRING value or it can also be used to set input file name.
		- <b>Type: </b></br>
		Input type, List contain STRING, INTEGER, FLOAT, URI, STDOUT and STDERR
		- <b>Application Arguments: </b></br>
		These are are the characters you would want on commandline in job execution for each input file or character input.
		- <b>Standard Input: </b></br>
		Futuristic property and not in real use at the moment
		-<b> User Friendly Description: </b></br>
		A description about the input to the gateway user. This will be displayed for users at experiment creation.
		- <b>Input Order: </b></br>
		this is a number field. This will be the order inputs displayed in experiment creation.
		- <b>Data is Staged:</b></br>
		- <b>Is the Input Required: </b></br>
		Futuristic property and not in real use at the moment. Whether set to true or false all inputs are currently treated as mandatory.
		- <b>Required in Commandline:</b></br> 
		When this is set to true the arguments and the input file or the value will be available in job execution commandline in job script.
		- <b>Meta Data:</b></br>
2. Application Output Properties
	- <b>Add Application Output</b></br>
	Click this button to add outputs in Application Interface. Only the outputs added here will be brought back to PGA and displayed for users to download through the portal.
		- <b>Name:</b></br> 
		This is the label for the output.
		- <b>Value:</b></br>
		This would be the actual name of the output airavata brings back to the PGA.
		- <b>Type:</b></br>
		Tye of the output. This is mostly depended on the application. To troubleshoot for almost all applications define STDOUT and STDERR
		- <b>Application Argument:</b></br>
		This would be arguments for outputs need to be in commandline.
		- <b>Data Movement: </b></br>
		Futuristic property and not in real use at the moment. Whether set to true or false all outputs are currently brought back to PGA.
		- <b>Is the Output required?:</b></br>
		- <b>Required on command line?:</b></br>
		When this is set to true the arguments and the output file or the value will be available in job execution commandline in job script.
		- <b>Location:</b></br>
		- <b>Search Query:</b></br>	
3. How to make input file available as an executable?
	- Input files defined are copied to the experiment working directory.
	- To make available at commandline set 'Required on Commandline' = true
	- To add a commandline argument for a given file add 'Application Argument' for each input file
4. In Application Interface what is the use of 'Enable Optional File Inputs'	
	- By setting 'Enable Optional File Inputs' = true user can add none or many input files at experiment creation.
	- In Airavata any input file required for the application to execute need to be defined as a separate input.
    - When inputs are defined they are treated as 'Mandatory' inputs.
5. To bring all the files in the working directory set 'Enable Archiving Working Directory' = true
6. Where do I add remote resource execution commands?
	- In Admin Dashboard --> Application Deployment
	
